All right, so
let's look at the solution for this one.
I'm just gonna go to the books js one and
in here I'm just going to
create the factory function.
I can sign in, so export, well,
we can just keep it in here.
So const createBook, I'm just gonna
say this is gonna take a title,
an author, and the ISBN number.
And this returns that title,
author and ISBN.
I'm not going to add any other
properties although I could have,
in this case I won't.
So this is book one.
We can actually just say createBook,
Harry Potter, JK Rowling, and AB123.
I'm not going to type this out for
all of them.
Let's see we've got other
Harry Potter's here, book four,
Just going to create that one.
So this is the Great Gatsby.
The Great Gatsby.
Okay, I cannot say about that name.
I'm lazy and then CD456.
Okay, well,
this isn't enough books for me.
I'm not going to change all of these,
it takes a bit too long.
So right now we've just created those
books with a create book function, so
instead of having to create
that object every time,
we know that all these books that
always have the same structure,
they always have the title,
the author, and ISBN.
So when we go back into index now,
you can see that we, again, import books.
And we have the exact same
objects as we had before.
But this time, at least we know exactly
the object that will get returned.
We don't risk accidentally creating typos,
if we had a book five,
that's like Thai total or something
which totally could have happened.
So yeah, that's all like type safety.
And yeah, so if we wanted to add any other
properties based on the arguments that we
pass, it's super easy to do
that with the factory function.
But luckily, it's very easy in
JavaScript to to create that.
Any questions?
>> If you use the class to implement
this instead of a function,
will this still be considered
the factory pattern?
>> So
that would more be the prototype pattern,
which is what I'll be covering after this.
So using a class in this case and
then, well, so
we could have used a constructor here.
So we could have said like
class Book is constructor,
title author, isbn and
this again creates the exact same thing.
I won't type this out now.
Cuz I know I will have typos again.
Yeah, we can also of course
create new instances of a book.
Well, actually I will just finish it.
So this title is title and
this author is author.
This isbn is isbn.
And instead of saying the create
book here, because I'd like export
const book five is new Book, so we get
a new instance of this book which is,
I don't know,
I'm just gonna do Harry Potter.
So you could have totally done this.
Personally I prefer just having the more
concise syntax whenever possible.
However, using classes
does have some benefits,
which we'll talk about later
when it comes to memory.
That's part of the prototype pattern, but
if you prefer this syntax over the regular
object, that's completely fine.
They both pretty much results in or yeah,
they both pretty much
have the same results.
It's just that this is not
actually an instance of book.
So when we run this, let's see.
You can see that this is actually like
book instead of just a random object.
It's an instance.
Yeah, whatever floats your boat.
>> Would you consider the old
school way of creating
a class in js as a factory pattern?
>> Like we're doing here, I guess it
could be considered a factory pattern but
a factory is more like we have a function,
we have a factory function
that returns an object.
And just returning a class here, it's not
a function, we're just creating instances.
Now maybe if we had a function that says,
create book which returns a class,
then I would consider
it a factory pattern.
But with a normal class and
like creating instances,
it's not necessarily a factory pattern.
But again, these patterns come
from different languages,
usually like languages that, where
it's not easy to create many objects.
So yeah in JavaScript,
especially nowadays,
the factory pattern is still usable,
it's obviously usable.
It's something that you might just
implement not knowing that it's called
the factory pattern.
But yeah,
it's the official implementation.
It's not,
the benefits are not the same as for
other languages like Java or
C++, all that stuff.
So-
>> I think they were talking about before
we had the class keyword we used to do
new function function capital book.
>> Yeah, like that.
Yeah, that would definitely be considered
a factory function in that case,
instead of creating new instances.
At least if I'm thinking of the right
thing, cuz I think, I mean,
I won't type that out now.
Yeah, you could create a function
that then returned an object, either
explicitly or implicitly, which would
be considered a factory function, yeah.